Magick IRC Services

$Id$
(c) 1997-2000 Preston A. Elder <prez@magick.tm>
(c) 1998-2000 William King <ungod@magick.tm>

Requirements
============

Before you begin compilation of Magick, you must have a fully compiled
version of the Adaptive Communications Environment (ACE), the ZLIB
compression library, and a threads library such as pthreads.

If you are missing any of the above, you may obtain them as follows:
ACE 	http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE.html
ZLIB	http://www.cdrom.com/pub/infozip/zlib
PTH	http://www.gnu.org/pth

BSD USERS - BSD has inbuilt its threads library into its default
operating system, and you do not need a separate threads library,
however all versions before 3.4 with the threads patch applied, or
4.0 will not work, due to a badly implemented threads library.

You must compile each of the above products before attempting to
build Magick.  Magick will look for them in the configure phase.

Basic Installation
==================

   The `configure' shell script attempts to guess correct values for
various system-dependent variables used during compilation.  It uses
those values to create a `Makefile' in each directory of the package.
It may also create one or more `.h' files containing system-dependent
definitions.  Finally, it creates a shell script `config.status' that
you can run in the future to recreate the current configuration, a file
`config.cache' that saves the results of its tests to speed up
reconfiguring, and a file `config.log' containing compiler output
(useful mainly for debugging `configure').

   If you need to do unusual things to compile the package, please try
to figure out how `configure' could check whether to do them, and mail
diffs or instructions to the address given in the `README' so they can
be considered for the next release.  If at some point `config.cache'
contains results you don't want to keep, you may remove or edit it.

   The file `configure.in' is used to create `configure' by a program
called `autoconf'.  You only need `configure.in' if you want to change
it or regenerate `configure' using a newer version of `autoconf'.

The simplest way to compile this package is:

  1. `cd' to the directory containing the package's source code and type
     `./configure' to configure the package for your system.  If you're
     using `csh' on an old version of System V, you might need to type
     `sh ./configure' instead to prevent `csh' from trying to execute
     `configure' itself.

     Running `configure' takes awhile.  While running, it prints some
     messages telling which features it is checking for.

     You will be prompted to enter two keys for encrypting the keyfile.
     If this is your first time running configure, you may enter any
     phrase, word, etc you like, or accept the defaults (ie. the system
     name, and system type).  If you already have a keyfile for your
     databases, you will need to re-generate it if you enter different
     keys at these prompts.

  2. Type `make' to compile the package.

  3. Optionally, type `make check' to run any self-tests that come with
     the package.

  4. Type `make install' to install the programs and any data files and
     documentation.

  5. You can remove the program binaries and object files from the
     source code directory by typing `make clean'.  To also remove the
     files that `configure' created (so you can compile the package for
     a different kind of computer), type `make distclean'.  There is
     also a `make maintainer-clean' target, but that is intended mainly
     for the package's developers.  If you use it, you may have to get
     all sorts of other programs in order to regenerate files that came
     with the distribution.

Compilers and Options
=====================

   Some systems require unusual options for compilation or linking that
the `configure' script does not know about.  You can give `configure'
initial values for variables by setting them in the environment.  Using
a Bourne-compatible shell, you can do that on the command line like
this:
     CC=c89 CFLAGS=-O2 LIBS=-lposix ./configure

Or on systems that have the `env' program, you can do it like this:
     env CPPFLAGS=-I/usr/local/include LDFLAGS=-s ./configure

Compiling For Multiple Architectures
====================================

   You can compile the package for more than one kind of computer at the
same time, by placing the object files for each architecture in their
own directory.  To do this, you must use a version of `make' that
supports the `VPATH' variable, such as GNU `make'.  `cd' to the
directory where you want the object files and executables to go and run
the `configure' script.  `configure' automatically checks for the
source code in the directory that `configure' is in and in `..'.

   If you have to use a `make' that does not supports the `VPATH'
variable, you have to compile the package for one architecture at a time
in the source code directory.  After you have installed the package for
one architecture, use `make distclean' before reconfiguring for another
architecture.

Installation Names
==================

   By default, `make install' will install the package's files in
`/usr/local/bin', `/usr/local/man', etc.  You can specify an
installation prefix other than `/usr/local' by giving `configure' the
option `--prefix=PATH'.

   You can specify separate installation prefixes for
architecture-specific files and architecture-independent files.  If you
give `configure' the option `--exec-prefix=PATH', the package will use
PATH as the prefix for installing programs and libraries.
Documentation and other data files will still use the regular prefix.

   In addition, if you use an unusual directory layout you can give
options like `--bindir=PATH' to specify different values for particular
kinds of files.  Run `configure --help' for a list of the directories
you can set and what kinds of files go in them.

   If the package supports it, you can cause programs to be installed
with an extra prefix or suffix on their names by giving `configure' the
option `--program-prefix=PREFIX' or `--program-suffix=SUFFIX'.

Optional Features
=================

   Some packages pay attention to `--enable-FEATURE' options to
`configure', where FEATURE indicates an optional part of the package.
They may also pay attention to `--with-PACKAGE' options, where PACKAGE
is something like `gnu-as' or `x' (for the X Window System).  The
`README' should mention any `--enable-' and `--with-' options that the
package recognizes.

   For packages that use the X Window System, `configure' can usually
find the X include and library files automatically, but if it doesn't,
you can use the `configure' options `--x-includes=DIR' and
`--x-libraries=DIR' to specify their locations.

Specifying the System Type
==========================

   There may be some features `configure' can not figure out
automatically, but needs to determine by the type of host the package
will run on.  Usually `configure' can figure that out, but if it prints
a message saying it can not guess the host type, give it the
`--host=TYPE' option.  TYPE can either be a short name for the system
type, such as `sun4', or a canonical name with three fields:
     CPU-COMPANY-SYSTEM

See the file `config.sub' for the possible values of each field.  If
`config.sub' isn't included in this package, then this package doesn't
need to know the host type.

   If you are building compiler tools for cross-compiling, you can also
use the `--target=TYPE' option to select the type of system they will
produce code for and the `--build=TYPE' option to select the type of
system on which you are compiling the package.

Sharing Defaults
================

   If you want to set default values for `configure' scripts to share,
you can create a site shell script called `config.site' that gives
default values for variables like `CC', `cache_file', and `prefix'.
`configure' looks for `PREFIX/share/config.site' if it exists, then
`PREFIX/etc/config.site' if it exists.  Or, you can set the
`CONFIG_SITE' environment variable to the location of the site script.
A warning: not all `configure' scripts look for a site script.

Operation Controls
==================

   `configure' recognizes the following options to control how it
operates.

`--cache-file=FILE'
     Use and save the results of the tests in FILE instead of
     `./config.cache'.  Set FILE to `/dev/null' to disable caching, for
     debugging `configure'.

`--help'
     Print a summary of the options to `configure', and exit.

`--quiet'
`--silent'
`-q'
     Do not print messages saying which checks are being made.  To
     suppress all normal output, redirect it to `/dev/null' (any error
     messages will still be shown).

`--srcdir=DIR'
     Look for the package's source code in directory DIR.  Usually
     `configure' can determine that directory automatically.

`--version'
     Print the version of Autoconf used to generate the `configure'
     script, and exit.

--with-acelib=file
--with-aceinc=path
     This specifies where the makefile should look for the ACE library
file, and its includes respectively.  You must specify full pathnames.
Verification on what you have entered is minimal (ie. will only verify
the existance of the library file, and OS.h in the include directory).
This should only be used if Magick does not detect the ACE library.

--with-zlib=file
--with-zinc=path
     This specifies where the makefile should look for the ZLIB library
file, and its includes respectively.  You must specify full pathnames.
Verification on what you have entered is minimal (ie. will only verify
the existance of the library file, and zlib.h in the include directory).
This should only be used if Magick does not detect the ZLIB library.

--enable-bsdthreads
     This is mutually exclusive of --with-threadlib and --with-threadinc,
it specifies to use the -pthreads option with GCC or CC when linking the
magick binary.  This is used for systems where pthreads is ingrained in
the standard C library, specifically, BSD.

--with-threadlib=file
--with-threadinc=path
     This specifies where the makefile should look for a threads library
file, and its includes respectively.  You must specify full pathnames.
Verification on what you have entered is minimal (ie. will only verify
the existance of the library file, and the include directory exists).
This should only be used if Magick does not detect a threads library.

--with-scramble=number
     This will change the amount of characters you scramble your keys to
decrypt the keyfile by.  Magick encrypts the keyfile (which is used to
decrypt the database) with two keys, however we also do not want these
two keys in clear text either, so we scramble them by a simple rotation
of characters, before putting them in the header, this ensures even if
they search your resulting binary, they will not find out the keyfile
encryption keys -- as they are scrambled.  It is recommended you use a
different number here than the default.

`configure' also accepts some other, not widely useful, options.

Security Tips
=============

     Magick has several facilities to ensure your databases and inter-
magick communications are kept secure and encrypted.  The main methods
of facilitating this are:
     * Databases and inter-magick communication is encrypted with a
       key through 3DES.  This key resides in a keyfile.
     * The keyfile itself is encrypted with two keys entered at the
       configure time, to ensure the keyfile is never cleartext.
     * The keyfile's keys themselves are scrambled, and not stored
       as-is.  These keys are scrambled by a simple text rotation.

To ensure the security of your databases and communication, you should
     * Use the --with-scramble paramater (mentioned above) to alter
       the amount of chars the keyfile key's are rotated by.  You should
       chose a different number each full compile.
     * Use different keyfile key's on different systems, and change
       them often.  You will need to re-generate the keyfile each time
       you change the keyfile key's, however this ensures your old key
       files cant be used to get the current data.
     * Chose a long and complex database key, you must remember this
       somehow, incase you need to generate a new database key, however
       you wont need it often.  Also choose long and varied keyfile
       keys, they can be up to 1024 bytes long!

Windows users by default do not get prompted for the keyfile keys, and
must edit the config.h file to type them in themselves, in clear text.
To use scrambled keyfile keys, you must:
     * Choose how much to scramble by, default is 13.
     * Execute the scramble program with the paramater of how much to
       scramble by (eg. scramble 10).
     * Type in your password in clear text.
     * Cut and paste the output into CRYPTO_KEY1 field in config.h
     * Repeat the above three steps for CRYPTO_KEY2.
     * Put how much have chosen to scramble by into CRYPTO_SCRAMBLE.

Pre-compiled binaries will not be able to change the keyfile scrambling
settings.  This could be considered an advantage of compiling yourself.
